---
layout: post
title: Ruby Style
---

An important skill for any programmer is ensuring that your code is easy to read and easy to follow.  This makes it easier to go back and edit your code, find errors, and for others to be able to understand your code.  Fortunately, Ruby has a great community that has come together to help develop a [comprehensive style guide](https://github.com/bbatsov/ruby-style-guide) to help its developers.

However, a new developer can't know all the rules right away.  Fortunately, again, the community has come up with a great solution: [RuboCop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop).  RuboCop will automatically analyze your code against the Ruby style guide and let you know of any "offenses."  It also allows for configuration, so if there's a certain element of the style guide you don't want enforced, you can disable RuboCup from checking it.

I'm going to use this post to look at 3 specific elements from the style guide, line breaks in methods; construction of multi-line conditionals; and naming identifiers, and discuss why they're important.

LINE BREAKS IN METHODS:
"Avoid single-line methods...their definition syntax that make their use undesirable."

{% highlight ruby %}
# bad
def bad_method; something; something_else; end

# good
def good_method
  body
end
{% endhighlight %}

The reason for this rule, and most of the rules, is to increase the readability of your code.  The first example, can be confusing, while the second example makes the body of the method clear to see.

MULTI-LINE CONDITIONALS:
 "Always put the condition on the same line as the if/unless in a multi-line conditional."

{% highlight ruby %}
# bad
if
  condition
  do_something
end

# good
if condition
  do_something
end
{% endhighlight %}

Putting the condition on a separate line from the if statement makes it seem like it's part of what should be done if the if statement is true.  The if and condition on the same line clarifies it.

NAMING IDENTIFIERS:
"Name identifiers in English."

{% highlight ruby %}
# bad - not using ascii characters
плохая_переменная = 300

# bad - variable not in Enlgish
mal_codigo = 300

# good
good_variable_name = 300
{% endhighlight %}

Again, we want out code to be easy to read and understand.  Using non-English or non-ascii identifiers makes it difficult to understand what the variable is or to even just type it in.
